Enough lecturing, enough talking.
Let's go and create our actual user model.
So back inside my code editor, I'm going to find my auth service directory.
Here it is right here inside the SRC folder.
I'm going to create another directory called models.
And inside there, I'll create a file called user dots.
So this is where we are going to define our mongoose user model.
We're also going to write out some code inside of here to solve those two issues that we just discussed.
Let's get started at the very top.
I'm going to import mongoose from mongoose.
After that, I'm going to define something called a schema.
A schema is how we are going to tell Mongoose specifically about all the different properties that a
user is going to have.
I'm going to write out user schema is new mongoose schema.
And inside of here again, we're going to list out the different properties that a user is going to
have.
So first off, they're going to have an email.
I'm going to mark its type as being a string and I'm going to say that this property is required or
required.
True.
A quick little note.
You'll notice we put a type right here and we said that its type was going to be string.
This is not in any way, shape or form, not whatsoever tied to type script.
The type that we are listing right here is 100% specific to Mongoose.
It does not tell TypeScript anything whatsoever.
The other thing I want to mention is that when we put a type of string right here, it is capital S
string because we were referring to the built in string constructor that is available inside the JavaScript
language.
Whenever we write out a type of string using TypeScript.
So for example, if we wrote out an interface here really quickly and when it had some imaginary property
that was of type string, we'd write out lowercase string.
So in TypeScript, whenever we want to indicate a type of string, it's lowercase with mongoose.
When we indicate a type of a property, it is a capital because we're referring to an actual constructor.
So after that, the other property we're going to eventually store on all these different users is a
password.
This will also be of type string and it will be also required.
All right, so that looks good.
So now after creating that schema, we can feed the schema into mongoose, and mongoose is going to
create a new model out of it.
And remember, this whole model thing is how we actually access a whole big set of data inside of our
MongoDB database.
So I can say down here at the bottom user is mongoose model.
I'm going to put in a string of user and then feed in the user schema like so.
Then finally at the very bottom, I'm going to export user.
Okay.
So at this point in time, well, we wrote out all this code in everything appears to be working without
any issue whatsoever.
I don't see any typescript errors or anything like that.
However, if we start to really play around with this user model that we've now created, you can really
start to see where these two issues are going to start to cause us some problems.
For example, let's just try to create a new user.
So after creating the user model down here, I'm going to say new user.
And I'll pass in some properties I want to assign to this user.
Well, naturally, we probably want to have an email and a password.
So I could put in something like an email of test at test.
And a password of whatever.
Well, that looks fine.
We still don't see any errors from TypeScript or anything like that.
However, here's where stuff starts to go wrong.
There is no information about the arguments that are going to be provided to this constructor being
fed into TypeScript right now.
So even though you and I know that we want to give that constructor an email and a password that are
both strings, because that's what we told Mongoose.
TypeScript has no idea that that is the case.
So if I start to mangle these properties, if I accidentally put in, like, just as TypeScript says,
hey, who cares?
No issue whatsoever.
We don't get any warnings.
We don't get any errors.
I can add in extra properties.
No problem.
I can even change this from a string to a number.
Also, no issue whatsoever.
So you can start to see right away that TypeScript has no idea about what is going on with the arguments
that you're passing to this constructor.
The whole reason that we are using TypeScript is so that it can check stuff like this and make sure
that we are not making silly typos or anything like that.
So it would be great if we could somehow teach TypeScript about the different properties that we're
going to pass into this thing so it can do some validation or something like that for us.
All right.
So now that we understand the issue here, let's take a quick pause, come back the next video and start
to discuss how we're going to get TypeScript and Mongoose to actually work together.